So anyone ever worked in a system that didn't do it that way.
Hmm, well, I work on lots of systems. Well, I'm currently working on this program in Australia.
That's 6 instructional weeks. It seems crazy.
Fast, but I guess what you're saying. It's backed by some research.
Sure, I'm sure it is. Yeah, yeah. And how much?
How many hours would it be? Total? And how is it like?
It's more than 3 h a week, I imagine, of instructional time.
If if even can talk about it that way.
Yeah, it's what it is. It's like the.
It's like a masters in it's a few like technical reasons, like, I'm asking data, science or or cybersecurity, or that's another. Oh, and project management.
But the idea is that you only take one class at a time.
It's 6 weeks and you have a week off, and you have your final, and then it's a ton of asynchronous time.
It's like 9, or what is it? It's about?
No, it's probably like 6 h of acing time, and then a 90 min.
Live session every week. Yeah.
That makes sense. I took. I took as I took, a typical of a 3 unit course, 45 contact hours and had to teach it in a 2 week.
Winter session in between the falls and the spring, semester, with a break in break in there as well I basically have 9 teaching days, 45 h.
One.
That means I mean 5. What was that? 5 h a day?
Yeah, 5 h a day. That was crazy. I would never do that again, because even though you try to cover it, I tried to cover the same content with essentially the same activities and things.
Yeah.
It's just. It's not possible. As well as you can't get any kind of reflective moments like here, you've got a whole week to reflect on what we're doing.
You may not spend all week thinking about class, but you might think about it multiple times during that week, and that all contributes to what you're able to do as far as the homework.
Or you know the discussion forums, or writing the papers, etc.
Compress all that into one third of the time. It's a different experience.
You probably walk away, you might learn more cause it's less distributed.
Hmm!
But then again, yeah, who knows? It's gonna? Be different?
With what you said, that there's research to suggest that 6 to 8 weeks is the optimal amount of time.
Huh!
Yeah, yeah, if you do, if you do any, if you do any searching on that, you might come across it, and that's why a lot of programs have gone to like 8 week or 6 week or 7 week when they do more like course by course, by course.
I think if you're doing, course, course, course, by course, individually, like you're just taking one.
During those times. That's that would be great.
Yeah.
I would love to learn that way, because, you know, you're hyper focused on producing and deep learning during that time, rather than like spreading yourself through the cross.
A number of courses. But yeah, 6 weeks.
Sessions is what our summer school is. That's what like our summer term is.
It's like a 6 week, like abreviated quarter.
Right, yeah.
But you're also taking multiple losses at that time.
Right? True. Yeah, our summer, our summer schedule, is usually we have a 5 week period, and then another 5 week period, and then we have a 10 week period which crosses all of it.
And then we have. I think it's an 8 week period which crosses all of it.
And then we have. I think it's an 8 week period which starts 2 weeks after the beginning of the first period and goes until the end why, there's an 8 week period in there.
I have no idea, but that's the way we do it, anyway, it doesn't really come into play in our program, because we haven't offered summer classes in a long time.
Because we typically don't have enough enrollment to make it all work.
Financially speaking. So there you go alright.
Well, you turned in your final papers, so I'm not most of you, if not all of you.
And you were giving people feedback, I believe, and the Forum.
And hopefully, that's going. Well, I haven't heard of any trouble doing that.
We have the typical trouble with well, I I can't open a file, or I don't have access to it.
And so, sometimes, hopefully, what we can end up doing is downloading and commenting and re uploading.
But that's kind of hassle. I'm still not, haven't really figured out exactly why we so have some of these technical glitches.
But this is the first one of us using the Lms.
And so I imagine that's something. Hopefully, we'll learn how to do better.
Anyway, that's for the next people. Okay, any questions about anything we've done so far.
I'm Dr. Beatty. I just wanted to say that like one thing at least, with I don't know. I don't know if it's the case on the like here with you side, but on the grading side, like as a teacher I always like it best once to submit
Pdfs, because it allows me to actually create within the canvas system.
Hmm!
And I can actually like highlight and my comments like, right inside the canvas window without having to download anything or upload anything.
But I don't know. I just wanted to put that up there. I don't know if it's the same, for, like, when we're doing peer reviews, I think peer reviews, we probably still need to download the Pdf.
That's a good question, you know. Actually, I've been trying to figure that out, because in this class it seems like none of the papers.
Allow me that freedom to actually mark them up inside speed grater.
But in other classes I see that, and I haven't really looked to see whether it's a Pdf.
Or versus word, Doc. Issue. I have noticed that word docs are not allowing me to do that, and I thought they did before.
So I will take a look at that cause. I have been trying to figure that I was just talking to someone earlier before we started our recording how? That's a little frustrating.
But I'll figure it out eventually. I'm gonna write that down.
Thank you for your help with that, and I'll let you know if it doesn't work out for me, or even if it does so.
Okay. Yeah. The Pdf is what I found for that.
So I tell students that's my preferred.
Right.
Submission format. And then, you know, then you have to tell them to teach them how to make a Pdf.
You know.
Uhhuh! Well, I won't have to tell teach our students how to make.
Pvf, yeah.
Yeah, no, not our students. But yeah, my students always have it because they're usually working from Google docs. So?
Right? Yeah. Google, Doc works well for me as long as I have access to comment on it.
At least comment on it. Directly. I don't have to actually edit it, but commenting is helpful, even though that seems to be a little problematic. You know.
Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. I know there's probably some consistent thing that there's not been set right, but we'll figure it out.
Okay, well, today, we're talking about assessment. And so here in session 11, I gave you a few things to look at.
None of these are very difficult to read and understand that you've been. Many of you have been.
You've been a sell your entire lives in formal education, and probably an informal education in your training world.
You probably have been assessed at different places and different reasons. And so you are.
You are used to consuming assessment, but you've also, if you've been teaching, obviously you do assessment.
If you've been a trainer, you've been developing aessments, probably, or maybe even using the results of assessments that other people have developed, there's a lot of different reasons for this.
So I gave you 3 3 or 4 things to look at.
Here. So we want to do is spend a little bit of time talking about them and hearing your insights into these cause.
I'm not just gonna talk at you, even for 45 min, but we will go over this for a little bit and then I have a video to show you that I don't know that any of you have ever seen.
I haven't posted it anywhere, not for this class, and then we will.
We'll take a break. We'll do a breakout discussion on the assessment and kind of help.
You understand, you know you can talk more about what's missing in the session.
Where are the gaps, and where might you be going with that?
Or what we'd be going with that, and then and then we'll wrap up on time hopefully.
So this first thing I gave you was this assessing student learning guide.
This is from Vanderbilt University. I find that their center for teaching you'd like there's a few universities like I are.
My go-to is for looking for guides to help people understand the know the instructional process or assessment, or engagement, or things offense. The center for teaching at Vanderbilt is one of those I've used several other resources over the years especially during the Pandemic there is some wonderful things at the beginning
talk about developing a basically modifying the things you did in active learning classrooms in person for online, synchronous and potentially even online asynchronous.
But they were really focused on the synchronous and and the synchronous blended environment kind of like high flex, not with the asynchronous, mixed in.
But what that other one is. So they had a wonderful tool.
I shared it in my workshops, for you know, for 3 years essentially, but they do other things as well.
Vanderbilt also has had a lot of. They have a history of research in learning sciences.
They did some of the early stuff with situated learning and things like that.
If you've taken the 8 42 class you may, I may have pointed to there some of some of the work in that class as well.
So the work that they done. Anyway, this is about assessing student learning, and what I really wanna know from you is, what did you find in here?
That was fresh for you, or was an important thing, that you may have thought.
Oh, yeah, I kind of forgot about that. What do we do?
Assessment. For several different reasons, Dalton.
Yeah, I think it was really nice sort of summary and definition of what's summative and formative assessments might look like.
And there were some good examples there, too, and I particularly liked that.
They also address him. The issue with grades. If there is a section that starts with graders are only the broadest or sorry grace, they're only the broadest of indicators.
Right.
Achievement of her status, and as such did not provide very meaningful information.
Of students, learning or knowledge or skills. And this is something, I think a lot about it in science classes that is trying to get my focus up to skill.
Knowing stuff is overrated, I guess, in terms of assessment.
It's about. What can, what can they do with the knowledge that they can demonstrate?
So I thought it was pretty solid.
Yeah. So here's a question for you, though any of you who have ever graded anybody for anything has it all?
Has it ever been completely on what you believe? They learned completely?
Migrates have never been completely on just what someone has learned right.
No!
I think that it. I also grade base, you know, migrating, creating scheme, at least in these classes.
It also has to do a lot do with process, and your your willingness to kind of basically follow the process because I'm sort of a process person.
I think the process is really important, and if you follow the process, you're more likely to get better learning.
And so I include that as part of the grading, because I know that grading influences behavior.
So there you go!
I don't hear from anyone else.
I actually also kind of I'm sorry. Go ahead.
No no go ahead, Marie!
So I can't see anybody, cause I'm trying so I'm sorry if I cut anybody off.
But yeah, no, I take into account growth, too.
And you know, like, if a student is showing improvement from it.
For example, in writing, or even effort from one assignment to the next.
I usually take that into account when I grade.
Go ahead, Adam!
I think that like they talked about this one talked about generativity.
I think somewhere. Is that right?
Somewhere, one of the next. I'm on the Vanderbilt side. I just don't know.
It might have been the next one, but I see it was a set.
Oh, is that the second reading? Okay.
It was the second reading, yeah, good stuff there, though. I also caught that.
Right? Well, cause I'm I'm looking at.
A website rather than a Pdf, so I must, anyway. Should I? Should I wait then to talk about that one, my bad.
No, is your are you looking at it now? Can you share it for us?
Yeah, I am. Oh, yes, sure. Why not?
We have the technology. Let's use it.
Okay, here we go. 1 s. Okay?
What this this is, what what I link to when I think generative and reflective assessment.
Well, I think it's interesting to think about it, especially now with when you think about like AI in the ways that like AI can be a like, be used for that generative creation of something.
And also when you so like, I think in a lot of like the formal learning, like generativity, is definitely something that we want to see. Students do.
But also there is some research, I think, with blooms like blooms, always emphasizes this idea of creation, when, like, there is still some importance in like testing and remembering things, and then, when you think about like the training world to of assessment, I often think that it's
often in a corporate environment where you can't necessarily ask employees to generate something every time you just need them to take a quiz.
You know that at least they've like gotten the ticket for it, and that seems less generative to me.
Well, I'll tell you when I use the word generative.
It's usually around. I talk about generative learning activities.
And I talk about it. When I'm trying to explain to people kind of the learning process, and therefore the instructional process, what we trying to get students to do because we know that this helps them learn and the generative learning activities.
I'm talking about are where you encounter new information, and then you have.
You have to process it in some way right? And so it's.
It's a cognitive science kind of idea.
A thinking idea. What do you do with it? Well, maybe maybe what I'll do is I'll try to see how well aligns with other things I know, or maybe I'm gonna try to take this information and structure in a way that makes sense to me or maybe I'm going to
generate a diagram that explains it in some particular way.
But basically, what you're doing is you're you're working with the ideas in your mind in a way that that orders them in some way that will help you learn it better than if you didn't get weren't tasked with just ordering it yourself.
So the generative learning activities to me is one of the things that helps take us take information from what you might call the shorter term memory, where you've just heard it.
You know. Maybe it's kind of like there for a little bit, but unless you actually do something with it, it doesn't really get a chance to be put into into your memory in a way that is memorable.
Alright!
Where you can actually go back and use it later. So the gener of learning activities. For me, it's one of the bridges between like short-term memory and long-term memory. I mean, that could be recalled.
Right. And so like just like having like a quiz or like knowledge checks, while there's like somewhat somewhat useful like isn't really generated right?
Not charity, no, not really right. So a generative generative activity could be okay.
Let's discuss. Discuss this with with someone else, or a group of people, or a little summary of this, so that you could explain it to I don't know if family, member or younger, or whatever you know, or someone else who doesn't know anything about it, or or teach it to a
colleague, and or share this idea 3 times in the next week, and come back next time.
Let's talk about what the reaction was, you know those kinds of things we're actually having to process it more as you're thinking about it to help you remember, put it in a way in putting your mind essentially build some patterns of neurons essentially, to create memories that you
can then queue into later.
And so when, like, it seems like that, like is highly valued in this.
Yeah.
In like what Vanderbilt puts out, but on a when I from there, when I think of like technology tools, then that you would use for assessment, I think of more like engagement tools in a way like even like jam board with mari presented like something more like that cause
that's like, help. Students generate something rather than like when I think of, like the traditional forms of assessment tools, it's like more like, what kind of complex multiple choice question can you make at?
And what kind of great data can you get from that?
Right. Well, so here, interesting point to talk about here is when we are trying to assess learning, what are, what can we look at?
I mean, if all we're doing is asking students simple questions and showing them the answer and having them pick their answer out of a you know 3 or 4 different answers, only one of which is supposed to be correct, what kind of learning are we really assessing simple recall you've seen this before do you recognize
the term? Or do you recognize the definition? Are those kinds of things simple multiple choice questions are essentially just asking for simple recall.
One of the lowest levels of kind of remembring that there is.
So if we really want to understand what people understand and learn, we kind of have to get some evidence of their learning and understanding.
So means we have to be, have to give them an update to express that in a way that we can see or something can see, so that it can actually assess the quality of that of that understanding.
Dalton.
Yeah, I've I've tried to look over the reading, for you know something.
I think that I maybe I didn't get in the fourth past, which is that the quality of the assessment, the types of things that you you can look at, the volume of things you can process depends on instructor capacity, right?
A class of students is gonna forward. Very different in a class of a 100 students.
Right. So it's like the the density how much the teachers can process some things can be processed very fast.
Rather with have worlds. All those knowledge checks everything, is going through the hab world's platform right?
Uhhuh.
It's it's already there. The teachers have to do anything.
All the grading is done through it, everything, all the averages, and then that freeze up.
Of course, instructed to do the other stuff like the growth stuff that I think Mara was talking about, or formative assessments or discussion forums.
Maybe some papers or essays, or something. All other generative stuff.
But isn't that really the limiting factor is huh? The instructor, like what the constructor can do?
And look at.
Well, good. Question. Now, here's the here.
Have you ever given an exam where you had students?
You know, do a lot. They did a lot of maybe a was maybe was maybe essay questions.
Short answer questions, problem solving questions, maybe some multiple choice run in there.
And yet when you were ended up grading it, you went through some of it much more quickly than others, and just kind of surface level.
Grades some of it because of time restrictions.
I mean, sometimes that happens right? I'm just gonna look at the answers.
If you got the and the bottom answer wrong. Boom! Automatically.
You're losing. You're losing at least half the credit if you're showing your work, you get half the credit. I don't even.
I don't have the time to look at it. So some facts, times that actually that might happen.
The the point is not that the students are still expressing what they understand right?
If it's a well crafted assessment.
The teacher, or who, however it's being graded, might only be assessing part of that, even though the student is expressing more of it.
And that's not. That's obviously not an ideal situation, but that is, that's one of the things that can often happen.
So when we want students to express more understanding sometimes, what we do is we sample even what they're showing.
We sample, we do like a double sampling here, where we're saying, well, we can't possibly ask them to talk tells everything they've learned.
So we're going to target what we think are, maybe some of the most important things, or maybe the ones that we think students will actually do better at, because that might be part of what we're trying to do is try to encourage them to keep moving on a lot you know in a program okay, so we're
sampling there. We're not asking about every possible thing that they've learned, and then the second part of that sampling comes in.
Well, maybe I'm only going to grade. Maybe they're doing 5 essays but I'm only gonna grade these 3 right or I'm just gonna pick any 3.
Or maybe I'll let the students, you know. You know they pick one.
Everyone gets graded on one of them. They pick one, and I pick one or something like that.
I don't know, so we might be sampling that as well.
And so what you end up in the grading scheme is just a sample of assessing what, as I sample of what students have actually learned, it's a very inexact measure.
And this is one of the reasons why grades are our are not really all that good for expressing what students have actually learned.
They're really good at expling other things. Oftentimes it's a comparative measure compared to all the other students in the class.
This this grade seems to be a better grade than many of the others, or and then, when you start bringing in other things into the grading, besides learning like, okay, performance behavior, you know, form you're using like you know, part of the grade in the classes.
I teach is the form you're using in the way you're presenting your information.
Okay, that's not really. That's not really a knowledge level.
It's really more of a can you operate in the field kind of level kind of a suspect?
So yeah, great in exact. And yet why do we use them so much?
Usually it's because we have to compare somebody to something, either a standard or to peers.
We use a lot. We do a lot of sorting with grades at different levels of education, even in a training environment.
Sometimes those are used to sort people if you are, if you're a trainer have you ever worked as a trainer?
How do you get graded? Do you ever get graded by the people who are in the classes?
I mean, even as a teacher in classrooms, like in colleges, what all students get at the end of the semester you get a chance to tell us how this instructor was, how you how, what's your perspective on this whole experience?
Sometimes those are used essentially to greet instructors to give them a grade, so they know whether or not they should be rehired for lecture faculty.
That's not uncommon. Do you get bad scores from your end of end of class evaluations? There's a good chance you won't be rehired.
So, yeah, so yeah, assessment. But there are lots of other things to let me.
Let's go back into this reading just a little bit.
So he talks about different methods of student assessments.
I think I'm sharing this again. Right? Yeah. And you know, so they talk about essays, various things.
Exams, there's a lot of there's a lot of interesting ideas around there, as far as you know, how to prevent she or reduce cheating, cheating, or reduce the likelihood of cheating.
That's another topic. But I wanted to get down to these other areas of assessment.
Not just understanding what students have learned, but helping them understand what they've learned or where their progress is.
How well are they learning, so helping kind of this, almost like a Meta cognitive approach to let them do self assessment.
How well are! How well do you know this? And if you don't, what notes?
Well enough, probably based on your standards, or maybe best based on the course standards.
If you got that to compare with you know. What can you do to maybe improve what you've learned if you even care about improving what you've learned so self-assessment is an important thing as well, so are are we able to use technologies to help students self
assess, you know. So if they, if they if they can, see their like scores on some sort of an assessment, activity, but they have no idea if that's good or bad, or indifferent, that's not gonna work.
So somehow we have to be able to help them understand. You know how well they're doing so what are you doing?
How well is it working, and what can we do to adjust what you're doing, or what what you need to know? Maybe even the process you go about that so that you can learn it better.
Sounds a lot like coaching in a way. There's this concept called deliberate practice.
You may be familiar with that concept, the idea there is that, you know, when you're trying to learn get better at something.
It doesn't the solution isn't always just keep doing it.
Keep doing, it, keep doing it, keep doing it, keep doing it, keep doing it, but get feedback along the way.
So you know how well you're doing, and if you're not doing well in one particular area, you get some of help on adjusting your performance so that you're not doing the same thing over and over, you're doing an iterative improvement process over and over again.
Adam.
This has gotten me to also think about like what like the idea of like diagnostic assessment within the context of learning, specifically like taking a pre test or something, and that potentially being used by both student to know where they are in their learning and where they need to direct themselves, but also
like, how how a instructor or teacher needs to.
Then, like tailor their learning to students. But I don't. I don't know if I saw that in this reading.
Well, what here's one thing to think about.
Right.
They start out with this whole backwards design right? And so the idea is that you are working from outcomes wherever it's way up here.
I think right way up here up here. Yeah, I see working with outcomes.
And so wouldn't it be interesting if students know at the very beginning what the outcomes were that were expected of them, and what they should expect?
And what if not only do they know what the outcomes are?
But they got a sense of where they stood already like, how close am I to actually achieve this outcome?
Or have I achieved it, or do I already have already met this outcome?
In which case, why am I here? Or let me focus on something?
You know another one of the outcomes that I don't have mastered already, or I can't like show evidence that I'm able to meet that.
And in order to do that you'd have to have some way of helping them know, like assess them at the very beginning you know whether or not they can meet these outcomes and to to what extent I guess you know the level of quality all that kind.
Of stuff. And so one thing that you might end up designing, especially into training, an experience where where efficiency is often valued more than in an educational experience, it's well can you do this already?
Can you meet the outcomes? I don't know.
Take the final assessment, show us, and if that final assessment is map back to the all the outcomes, if they can pass that final assessment, whatever form of might be, then they should be said, okay, you don't need to do this training, because you clearly have already met these
outcomes, that works when the outcomes, you know are, you know, pretty well structured and that's the real important part of that.
Sometimes in training, but especially in education. The process is also important, in which case you still might have students go through the process. Why?
Because what they know is going to help other people learn and what they know can actually be.
You know, maybe made more rich. Yeah, we'll become more enriched by their experience with other learners, because others will probably have strengths in different areas.
And so that whole process might be something that you would still want them to go through, because maybe the unstated outcome is that you're improving along the way, and maybe you're learning different perspectives on the content.
Also on the way that often doesn't show up in formal outcome statements.
But it could be part of the kind of the unwritten outcomes having to do with process like I don't write anything really too much, at least not too much about the process of learning in the classes.
I teach, although I mean I can tell that their important outcomes for me because of the way I kind of structure the course my expectations for students.
On a weekly basis, and also the way the grading system kind of a set up.
I could talk about this for a while. Assessment is, you know, it's critical, and I guess what I'm trying. I want.
I in my mind. At least, I'm trying to make this connection between engaging in the learning process can also be an assessment approach itself and assessments themselves can also be.
You can use engagement tools essentially to help people. You show what they know, so that you can actually then measure what they know, or the system can measure what they know.
And then they can get feedback, and the system can know well how well is this person doing?
Should they move on, or should they not move on, should they be booned? Should they not be promoted?
Should they be a manager? Should they not be promoted?
Should they be a manager?
How about anybody else out there who did this? Looked at this.
Looks like Mario, your audio car. Welcome!
Yeah. Hi, I tend to like, provide a lot of writing as assessments.
Not necessarily full on anyays, but, like, you know, definitely like reading comprehension questions.
Or you know utilizing. I think I talked about in not in this class, but in 80.
One wasn't the learning theory cloud 800.
Who was my class. It was 80801.
Thank you. Right. I talked about using reading apprenticeships, and how that framework is I tend to use like some reading apprenticeship, free work to to kind of see if students are reading or understanding what they're reading and how they're reading and I guess would that be
considered. I guess I would be considered kind of more assessing their process of learning rather than like the outcome of what they have learned.
If that makes sense like, if I know that students are reading in a way that is, that is critical, that's like involving critical thinking or reflection, then I can see that they are utilizing a process that will help them.
Comprehend!
I don't know if that's a form of assessment.
Hey!
Well, I think I, yeah, I I think if one of the outcomes that you're interested in is that they are following a process that should lead to learning, in part, because you want them to continue learning after the class right?
And so developing these kinds of learning skills could be one of the things that you want to develop, that in them in the class, through their experiences.
So you could. I think you could certainly assess, assess that if it's something, in, I think that if it's something that shows up in the grading of the students, then it should be something.
Students are aware of that, they're being assessed on right.
But if it's not being used to actually give them a grade, then I don't think that's students necessarily need to know all of that unless you want to have that conversation with them.
Here's why we're doing this. And and also giving them feedback on that particular particular aspect of of their you know their whatever their performance in the class or their progress along those lines of achieving those outcomes.
That's where the discussion might happen.
Yeah, there's also this idea of peer assessment.
And you know, in this class we, I, we do peer feedback.
We don't do. Peer assessment, although the feedback you give as has got a sum assessment qualities, too, because you're making comments that either are things that you notice.
We're strong, that we're very positive, or maybe things that you thought maybe were weaknesses or things that could could be improved upon that's a form of assessment it's not a formal assessment.
It's an informal assessment we don't call it pure assessment.
I think, but you could, but I don't think it sounds as good.
Peer feedback is probably a a softer term.
Now there are situations I've used peer assessment more formally, and that's when we do group projects that go for many weeks at a time.
Sometimes. What we'll do is we'll ask you to basically do a simple assessment on the various.
The peers around a lot of times. It's around process, you know.
Are they actually are they doing the assigned work? Do they have a role, I mean, do they know what they're doing?
Are they contributing to the project? Those kinds of things?
And once again it's in part to get people to to make choices, to be an active participant, because I know there being some sort of assessment on that.
So this is interesting while student peer assessments are most often fair and accurate. That's interesting.
That they would say that they sometimes can be subject to bias.
Well, that is, that's a that's a statement that's totally understated.
Pretty much all of our assessments are subject to bias.
They are. They represent the biases of those who created them.
The rubric that I use in my class, and the way I grade that that is subject to my bias all the time.
I can. Can you ask your question verbally?
In the chat.
As yes, I was thinking about the and toll-free exam that we had to take a non native English speakers so like.
After 2 years it's not valid. So why is that so?
I'm not forgetting everything. After 2 years. I don't forget how to speak so.
I don't get it. So when I was applying I had to take toffle again, because I took it more than 2 years back.
Yeah, I don't I don't know the specific answer for that.
But I think that what they may be thinking is a well. If someone takes the studies hard, for the exam does really well on the exam.
But doesn't use the language. After 2 years. That exam may be even less of a valid measure than it was when they actually pass the exam.
That could be what they're thinking of. But I don't know for sure. That's probably along the lines of what what the issue is, though.
Yes.
Well, if you look at, you know one thing we don't talk about and this is because this class is, it's not about assessment, really.
But there is that interesting kind of forgetting curve. It's the ebbing house right?
Isn't the Evin house forgiving curve? You guys come across that before maybe I can find it real quick.
Oops, and it kinda it kinda helps show. Yeah, here it is.
Over time. I use this in one class. I just don't remember which class.
Oh, here's a good one! Let me see if I can share this one.
Copy the is the.
I just want to copy the image.
Oh, maybe this will work. Let's see if this still work.
I'm just gonna copy the image address from something I search for over in Google images over here.
Oops!
So skilled. Here we are. Have you seen this curve before?
Yes, no!
I see one check and one now. Okay, well, what this is?
I think we.
Basically. What? Yes.
Have something to do with information processing theory. Okay, I think we have.
Totally. Yeah, right? And so basically, this is saying, if student based.
So here's the story. Student studies really hard for the exam, and they're able to do pretty well on the exam.
But over time. If you ask them the same questions later, you're gonna see this kind of this decay of the what they what they remember over time.
And it depends a lot on what it is, and it depends a lot on what it is, and it depends a lot on what it is to them and all that other kind of stuff, but what they find is that this is actually this is something that's important.
Next week, when we talk about adaptive learning systems. But what they find is that if you read, if you give them an opportunity to review what they learned to scram for that exam, and you do that on a regular regular schedule, even though it may not be in you know exact regularity, but space, to review you find that over time.
they end up remembering a lot more of it. Why? Because they've refreshed that idea they've kind of reinforced that that knowledge that they had before, because they've gone through some review on it.
This is why we often see a cycles of review right?
There's often a spiral sequence used, especially in educational systems.
So first grade math introduces certain concepts, second, grade, math comes back and revisits some of those concepts, and adds in new ones.
Third, grade math revisits a lot of those other concepts and takes them maybe to another level.
And you just kind of keep cycling up. And so by the end, by the end of whatever that cycle is saying, okay, this person understands their arrestment tech, they can do a addition.
We don't have to remember. We don't have to review edition anymore, because after a certain number of cycles, we're pretty confident they're getting it.
You know the language learning apps that you might use, or that other people might use, if it's not you, they often will cycle these kind of review problems or review questions, review skills.
I guess into the things that they're showing you, so that you get a chance to review and review and review.
Or practice over time. Multiple times, until at some point they'll say, we don't have to ask you.
These vocabulary questions anymore, because you've you've answered them right like 3 or 4 times, and after a certain number of correct responses, the system will say, Okay, take this one off the list of review, because you've obviously got it.
So that's kind of what what this is referring to.
Now, why would we want there? I forgot. Well, let's let's take a look at the time.
Here, let's look at another one another. One of these tools, or things I gave you to read.
This one is from the Department of Education, Us. Government Department of Education, and the thing I wanted to point out here they talk about measuring for learning and so they have some interesting things to say about technology here.
This is I I don't remember exactly what the date of this is I don't know if it's being updated all the time, but some of the ideas, I think are pretty interesting.
What do you think about this little, this nice little kind of like an infographic?
Isn't it so? Information based, put together visually, kind of like a table?
The future of assessment where they're talking about traditional like the way many of us learn, and many of us have taught.
And next Jen, as is still even next Jen, timing, accessibility pathways, feedback item types and things like that.
What's this useful?
Dalton.
Yeah, I was a really some of this stuff we're already doing in my school.
But I still have quite a ways to go, but I was also really struck by their set of recommendations sorry this is a lot of the chat, but they talk also a lot about how you know, if we wanted to really kind of thing information.
Is being transparent. Information is also seen by . Learners ads. A dashboard can go a long way with that, and we have something like that writing canvas where we can see a dashboard of a of all of our assignments right like how we've done in previous assignments I
think that that one's pretty helpful, and a dashboard.
There's also adaptable meaning like you can go further into granularity right?
Going all the way down to like a rubric, or maybe a a paragraph in an essay, or something like that.
And I think these tests are pretty powerful, and they're already being used in corporate world, and for lots of lots of things assessing eternal stuff, you know, attitudes within companies, progress tasks.
So I think this is something that I'm looking forward to, happening more often in education.
Of course, the price is one thing, that these dashboards are pretty expensive and maintain and host and serve.
But I'm looking forward for some of the stuff to kinda into.
Yeah, we we use, we use dashboards.
Public and private schools.
In advising system, and this is a a tool.
We've been using for about 4 or 5 years.
Now we're almost ready to start using it for graduate students.
And if we were, I would show you what that looked like.
But one of the things the tool does. It looks at students.
Progress based on the reportable data coming from a course. It's usually it's all.
After the course is over. So it's it's their grades.
It's the courses they've taken towards their degree, and it will give an advisor an idea where the student stands, as far as their progress towards their degree.
You know, minor certificate, whatever it might be.
But what it doesn't do is give them real time information based on what they're learning.
The system is equipped to do that. If the faculty provided information, and so it provides us as an institution with the ability to say, Faculty, please give us, you know, weekly progress reports on students, or even just monthly even, and if that data was in there then the adviser could see well.
actually in your courses, this semester looks like you're doing really well, tracking your lookout on a progress for good grades. And 2 of them.
But for 2 of them you're not doing so well you know, and then they then they can actually identify those students as may be needing some opportunity, for you know, maybe there's an intervention opportunity there, or the advisor could reach out to the facts, hey?
Looks like this faculty's really struggling, based on the data we see.
Blah blah blah. Well, the point is all saying is that these systems can be really wonderful.
But once again they rely on the underlying data to be valid and reliable and useful or meaningful.
I guess I should say so. There's always that challenge when you have a, you know, data that's just being processed in displayed.
If the data is not accurate going in, then you're obviously you're not gonna get good findings out of it that you can use one of the interesting things I saw on this whole, this idea of feature assessments. All this neck chest up this is all there it's all
available now adaptive, adaptive assessment. Certainly and better than learning. Yeah, adaptive learning systems.
They've been doing this really, for more than a decade.
Alright, universally design. Yeah, what this means is that you wouldn't just force everybody into the same form of test if, especially if that form of test isn't a good fit for them. You know.
Perhaps they take a lot longer on these paper. Pencil tests because of motor skills or just because of the decoding of information.
And maybe they could get a different form of assessment. This is already available.
It's being used in some places. Real-time feedback.
Probably not so much, in order to get real-time feedback.
You need to have real timetime measurement, and where we have that right now, especially in schools, is with the teachers.
This is where you get real-time feedback now, I don't know.
A lot of systems that are doing that. But perhaps some of these formative assessment systems that we've we've used.
We've looked at can provide some of that depending on how, how they use.
But that's really difficult to get. And then the item types I'm not sure exactly.
I I don't dig into this.
But you know this is not an item type.
I mean, all this is a this is just showing a multiple choice response.
Yeah, I don't know if the enhance would be we can actually have them right.
We can actually have them solve problems. We can see the problem that's being worked out, etc.
Usually even those, and oftentimes in test standardized testing.
I'll come back to this, you know. Give a right multiple choice answer.
So anyway.
Actually really, quick. I always hear about like real-time assessments or real-time feedback.
But what does that look like in real life?
Yeah, does anyone have a good example of that?
Like a cahoot. That's real time feedback.
Okay. Okay.
Or Ed puzzle like something where, if you do quiz, let's say a net puzzle, or you know you get to see what was the right answer right there at the spot, as opposed to later on.
Once the quizzes come back to you. I do. This is like one example.
Yeah, if you do, look at.
Like automated feedback right in some ways, are like that auto validated.
Yeah, if if you do, a search for like real-time feedback in schools, what you end up, what you get, you get all these companies that basically do these feedback tools.
In other words, formative assistessment, tools where you give students, you know, attached to do a question to answer, and they get it, and they answer it right away, and immediately they know it's right or wrong, or how it compares, or where they fall within a larger group, especially if it's not a right or
wrong it's just a where do you feel on that?
Fill on this, and you can see it right away.
That's where the technologies come in. I'm not gonna do this. I don't.
Need that. So here, this is just an example. I think this is formative, right?
Yeah, 400.com. Look at that. Exactly what we were talking about, and you can watch that and see it in action.
But so do it. If you do a little searching around for that, you can see some of the tools that claim to be giving real-time feedback. Do you get real-time feedback? In the meantime, when we're doing one live in class, or even after.
Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. Actually, isn't it made me think of a mental meter cause I'm not familiar with who or you know, Ed, Puzzle.
I know Joanna did a great presentation on Ed Puzzle, and I was looking at that.
That was interesting. But okay, could it also just be like asking a question in class and having students respond? And then you're like you are able to tell if they're on the right track or not and letting them like correcting.
Okay.
Definitely. Yeah, the challenge usually especially when we're talking about using these tools.
Why do we use these tools when we well, one? They sometimes they can do things that are attach or can't do source processing information and doing some sort of comparison and displaying.
And you know the data side of it, but also a scale.
For one thing, you know, why do we use clicker systems?
Clicker systems that are designed for immediate feedback on what you're thinking compared to what you know, what's going on.
And like usually a large lecture hall. But that way a 100 students, or even a 1,000 students, get feedback right away instead of just one.
Student who has a chance to respond, and, then the faculty gets a chance to respond to that particular student.
Now everybody gets a chance to respond and it requires them to think a little bit more about what's being asked, and then they get some feedback based on that.
So that would be real-time feedback. The clickers would talk about that as well.
The clicker systems or online. Right? There's the other thing where the teacher and the students are not co-located.
It's more difficult to get feedback through the online tools.
And so using one of these other tools that that can provide that kind of that connection with, that's not a natural connection, like a being in person together in the same place.
That's that's another reason why these tools are often used.
Speaking of tools like that, we have this other one.
I asked you to take a look at Kathy Dyer's blog posts. She did this blog post, I wanna say, 2019 is maybe 2020, possibly 2020.
One. She, she updates it every year.
I just notice her, her latest, actually, and I don't.
This is yesterday that that's when I I looked at it again.
Anyway, she's got these different tools in here, and this is she's designing this, really, for K.
12 teachers. However, all of these tools could be useful at really any level, and it could be even useful in corporate training it for some situations and what I would say is, pay attention to what she's saying a good formative assessment recording audio and video what does that allow you to do while recording is one thing that
doesn't necessarily give any assessment but what you can use that is, you'll have students express themselves in some particular way, and then provide some sort of feedback which I think a lot of these are doing.
We video? Yeah, look at that, some of these, you you all know some of these.
You don't know all of them, I'm sure, quizzes polls, surveys, you know.
Cahots on here. See poll everywhere, one that you may be familiar with from webinars.
Mentor is not in her list, least, not here, but quizzes is a I use that.
I've used that in a class before Surveymonkey Member Survey monkey survey Hero Zoho, survey all these other things brainstorming min mapping, collaborating for a job chance to get feedback basically, students have to be able to represent their understanding some way and then have a chance for someone
or something to give them some feedback on, that, you know.
Right wrong on the right track. Not so much. One thing that's not in here is jam board would be a good one for this part, too.
I would think, what else is not here. There's another one called Mural.
Yeah, real-time feedback.
Present, engage, inspire other kinds of things, now just presenting, engaging, in aspiring, just the just itself. That's not necessarily a formative assessment approach.
But as you read through here as well you you could present it this way, and then you get feedback with another one of these tools.
Tags. Word clouds. I use this sometimes in mentometer.
I haven't done that much in this class where you have students, you know.
Put some words in describing something that you can draw, you can get a picture of what the class kind of is representing, as far as their understanding real-time feedback.
There's an aimeter right Paradac. Have we seen?
Have we seen that in this class yet? There's formative right there, formative.com family communication.
That's clearly a K 12 concept. We don't.
We don't do family communication in higher end until we invite parents, too, provide a lifetime.
Alumni Association membership for their graduating Senior I got one of those today.
So that's why I came up students to students, teachers, students, student communication, other tools here.
So she's just got 75 tools here that she sees used in basically in K 12 schools.
But anyway, and I want you to put put them in there, because if you link into any one of these, it basically will take you to the place.
And I don't know. Maybe it's updated because she changes links, not sure.
But I haven't found I haven't found a deadlink in here yet.
Oh, Kizana! Interesting! So I'm a so I think that they're prop.
She's probably cute making sure that this is, you know, stays up today.
So lots of tools, lots of things you can use. Another thing.
I I point you towards is another site like this. But this is nice, and that it's only 10 right?
It's only 10. These are the top tools. So I guess it's 30.
One tools that's the top. 31 tools for formative assessment.
One of the things I like about this site. If you wanna take a look at one that you haven't used yet.
It has a full review by someone who has some expertise.
So they say, which is probably true in the field. It talks about learning community privacy, rating.
So they actually dance. We talk. Member, talking about privacy and data collection all that stuff they've actually, they're looking at that.
And that's one nice, and then you can see some of the examples of what they're doing. You know.
Pros cons, etc. You know. What is it? Is it good for learning?
If this is a nice thing to do, because sometimes you want this kind of information but sometimes it's hard to find, unless cause you have to do a lot of sifting, and then I guess there's some different ways that they're giving you some tools to help use
this, and some overall ratings, and community rating customer service.
Bad, 1 one other 5, not a good number, and then the privacy meeting, etc.
Okay, so once again, there for you to kind of think about, and these are not.
These are these are user tools. I think that can help you.
Ideas at least get some ideas. Alright, let me. Let's do one more thing.
I wanna show you a video.
Is it? There's these are all using things that we've used these.
Some of these in class we've talked about them.
Adam, I'm not even sharing my screen, am I?
I just have one quick question about the department of Ed reading, and, like the traditional versus next generation, like one thing I was thinking about is that it makes me like in some ways like one of the limitations to getting to next generation learning are like systems that still perpetuate traditional learning I like I feel
like the funding is probably there. It's just that like, in my perspective, is merely from higher end.
But, like the incentives that institutions have for like demonstrating their outcomes, are more rooted in traditional learning.
So they have to show that like students are passing tests or that they're getting like they're they have a high pass rate on a certification exam or things like that.
That then perpetuate, like the more traditional, and, like the trainings that different teachers have and instructors have, and then how they even know how to what tools they know how to use.
Bye!
So it's like, how do do you think that there are like?
Do you think that's true that there's like it's more like the systems that surround validating education?
Educational programs are, what kind of like is a limitation to getting from like a traditional model to this next generation model.
Well, I'll tell you one thing. It is really hard to break into.
Ed tech with with a tool that does something radically different.
Then the way education has been done for let's say that's the last 20 years or so we can help you.
Illusionize what you're doing in your classroom that might appeal to some teachers.
Perhaps a school, perhaps a district. But the problem is, especially when it tries to do something that's really innovative.
Is it working against this incredibly strong system in place as says, that's not the way we do things.
Right.
Well, we can do things that way, but then we're what about?
We need this data. For example, a system that is not to set up for grading students with like an Abcd grading scale, right?
A lot of schools have tried that in the past, and many have gone away from it because it didn't fit in the system.
Usually the outputs they were expected to provide to wherever students would go on, from there, whether it was whether it was high school or more likely college, or something like that, we give them feedback, saying, Well, we we don't know what to do with this.
And so sorry your students aren't going to be considered, because we don't have the right data to kind of put them in.
You know, it's like square peg round hole.
Kind of idea. And so some systems went away with that. But it's a really route, you know, interesting, and probably has a lot lot of basis for for.
Proof, but it also points to the strength of this idea of sorting as opposed to actually assessing what people are learning so I guess the answer is, it's difficult it doesn't mean it's not worth doing.
And there are some schools that are doing things completely different. For example, you know, Dalton, you talk about your school.
You do things a little differently at your school, right?
But that's a you have that kind of situation where it's relatively small.
It's you make those decisions.
And you're you're you are really answering primarily to your clients.
Who are, who are your combination of your parents and your students, and then at some point, you're also answering to wherever these students are going on.
But that. But you've got a strong. You must be.
Have a strong case for the quality of learning that the students get, because that's obviously not pushing back on you to say, no, you can't do that.
You have to change, you know. I don't know a lot of our schools are really don't have that luxury, or they haven't figured out how to break out of that.
So they're kind of stuck in the system, you know.
The testing and the standardized testing and being sorted.
And administrators whose jobs depend upon doing well in the system that they have.
So I think that I think I was kind of rambling a little bit, but I think the point is that I think it's very hard to do that.
Yeah.
Let me show you an example of of a school and a system that was trying to do something differently.
And this is interesting. I think you may. I'm not sure if any of you have heard of this before about it's possible I'm gonna I'm gonna show, are you?
About a 4 or 5 min video. Here, let's just see what this is like.
If you have, if you've already seen this, in the chat, just tell me.
Oh, I saw that! And so this one is sharing.
Okay, I should. I be sharing. I'm gonna play this, and we'll see how the song comes across.
What was that should be? I'm sure. Teachers at this primary school in China know exactly when someone isn't paying attention.
But it's not in these headbands. Measure each student's level of concentration.
The information is then directly sent to the teacher's computer and to parent.
China has big plans to become a global leader in artificial intelligence.
It has enabled a cashless economy where people make purchases with their faces a giant network of surveillance cameras with facial recognition helps police monitor citizens.
Meanwhile some schools offered glimpses of what the future of high-tech education in the country might look like.
Classrooms have robots that analyze students, health and engagement level students were uniforms with chips that track their locations.
There are even surveillance cameras. That monitor.
How often students check their phones or yawn during classes these gadgets have alarmed Chinese Netizens.
But schools say, it wasn't hard for them getting parental consent to enroll kids into what is one of the world's largest experiments in AI education, a program that's supposed to boost students grades while also feeding powerful algorithms.
You know, the Government has poured billions of dollars into the project, bringing together tech giants, startups, and schools.
We got exclusive access to a primary school a few hours outside of Shanghai.
Call J.
To see firsthand how AI tech is being used in the classroom.
For this fifth grade class. The day begins with putting on a brain wave, sensing Gadget.
Students then practice meditating. The device is made in China and has 3 electricrodes the device is made in China and has 3 electrodes, 2 behind the ears and one on the forehead.
These sensors pick up electrical signals sent by neurons in the brain.
The neural data isn't sent in real time to the teacher's computer.
So while students are solving math problems, a teacher can quickly find out who's paying attention and who's not pashy urinan.
A report is then generated. That shows how well the class was paying attention. Even details.
Each student's constantcentration level at ten-minute intervals.
It's then sent to a chat group for parents to the tacer.
You can kind of make good, and that being fun, the reports are detailed, but whether these devices really work, and what they exactly measure isn't as clear.
We were curious of the headbands could actually measure concentration.
So one of our reporters tried on the device.
The paddle. This is a new technology, with still fairly little research behind it.
Theodor Zanto is a neuroscientist at the University of California, San Francisco.
He was surprised to learn that this tech called electroencephalography, also known as Eeg, is being used in the cloudroom on children.
It's usually used by doctors in hospitals and labs eg. Is very susceptible to artifacts.
And so, if you are itchy, or just a little fidgety, or the Eg.
Wasn't done properly, so that the electrodes didn't have a good contact affects the signal.
Despite the chances for false readings, teachers told us the head fans have forced students to become more disciplined.
The teachers say the students now pay better attention during class and that has made them study harder and achieve higher scores.
It's come. Not all students are as enthusiastic.
To the your yep up this fifth grader, whom he caught dozing off in class, told us his parents punish him for low attention scores and that kind of data adds a new kind of pressure for students.
Ash!
Okay, so I'm gonna pause that it's pretty interesting.
It's it's a little, maybe a little scary, but there's this, not the end of the story, though I found this also recently.
I didn't know this when I showed this before, but about 6 months after that video came out, was posted, and there was a couple of stories.
There's a whole bunch of stories, and like the spring of 20 or a spring of 2019, it turns out they stopped this program.
At least at this school, and probably I'm not sure if there was all the schools there were like 10,000 of these devices that they had had been using in various schools to do these kinds of you know kind of research experiments.
Essentially, and it said basically that the parents have we're pushing back around privacy concerns and what they're actually looking at, and why they're doing this.
I think, to their credit, and so I don't think this is going on anymore, although I'm sure those devices, if someone is trying to find ways to actually to actually use them.
So it's I'll give you the link to that if you wanna watch the rest of it.
But it's just another example of what you can do with different technologies, especially newer technologies.
Perhaps that can assess something, whether it's student learning it's not a direct measure of student learning but what they're trying to do is make that connection between the students.
Brainwave activity and the students' attention, and indirectly think, well, if they're paying more attention, then they're likely to learn more, and I'm not sure I haven't looked at the data on that.
I'm not sure if it anything's been published other than just news articles around that.
But it, you know this is the kind of stuff that's possible.
And that was 4 years ago. What do you think's possible these days?
I will also say there is another study that was going on in Georgia.
This State of Georgia, a school district about an hour outside of it, Atlanta, and they were doing similar work, not quite as what you might say invasive. But they were trying to use biometric data to help. You know, basically get better real-time feedback to teachers
about what was going on in the classrooms. Another tool that feels a little bit more invasive, not with biometric data, but with actually capturing words.
I was working with a large multinational corporation that's heavy into the AV.
And electronics and media and entertainment and all that stuff.
And they were developing what they called. I think it was like it was like an active learning tool for students, for faculty to use in a large classroom where you could do active learning with like 10 different groups of students, and still, as a teacher know which groups are on track and which ones
aren't. And essentially with the students would work around the table that had 6, had a head of device in the center and had 6 different microphones.
And each microphone essentially would would be connected to a students' area of the table, and the device would listen to the conversation and take the language, parse it into words.
And those words will be processed it processed and compared to words that the teacher ahead of time, Miss Ads, are the kinds of terms they should be using in this discussion.
These are the kinds of kind of words we would expect, and it would give the teacher like a red to green kind of color scale.
On how much they were on track, and so the teacher would know.
Table, 3 position 4, which would be over there. Left side is not saying anything.
Maybe I could walk over there. Maybe it could do a little intervention, that kind of thing, and we were doing some interesting look at it, and we got interrupted by the pandemic.
And then they decided, this is not a commercial product, I think, in part because it's we felt a little weird that you know we're listening in on conversations and all that data is being generated.
What's happening to the data, the way they have their systems set up.
At least what I was told was that nothing was ever stored.
It was like the stream was parsed, and then it would be displayed.
But nothing was actually saved on servers so. But another example of what you can do with this technology, that's that's listening technology, like some of you might have in your rooms. Right?
In in your houses. Something might be listening all the time.
Lots of different things we can do alright. Let's take a break let's take a 5 min.
Break and come back at about 21 min after or so, and we'll do a little debrief on this, and we'll go into it. We're gonna do a breakout, too.
Oh!
Okay, we're back.
I see. See one person back. 2 people back. Okay? So.
Interesting, what we can do with technology and why we would do things like this.
You know. I think that you know they're not doing this to invade privacy they may be doing it without regard to privacy.
Or it's really a different conception of privacy. I'd say.
But they're doing it because they're trying to.
They're they want to help people learn better. They want to improve student learning, and they think this is one way to go about it.
And part of that is understanding. I think it, you know, you know, getting the getting.
I don't know that anyone has ever connected this data to actual learning, but that would be in an interesting kind of research thing to do.
This looks pretty broad scale already. And so, anyway, very different experience for those those 2, those students.
Let's take a let's do a breakout, and if you wanna talk about that, that experiment essentially, or that kind of thing, you can bring that into your conversation here, and we can do it in our debrief.
But I want to give you a chance to talk about 2 things.
And so this is going to be really, I want you to think about what's going on.
Now that the way you're using technology well to to support assessing, learning what you know, students, trainees, whatever you want to call them.
But in your instructional settings, how does it work well for self-assessment, formative assessment, or summative, like grading kind of assessment?
The technology is used effectively now, alright, and even maybe more importantly than looking ahead.
Which of these emerging technologies, or maybe ones we've looked at, maybe ones we haven't looked at.
But what would you want to use? Alright? What would you want to use?
Maybe that you don't have tools to do right now, you know, and even thinking forward to something that may not be possible right now with the technology that we have available that we know about already what kinds of things would you want to be able to do would you want to be able to check to see in individual student you know what are
they actually thinking about, you are they actually are they tracking with what I'm saying?
You know those kinds of things, or, you know, is that something that I don't think you'd want?
You may not want to go there right. But where would you wanna go with this?
Alright, and see, we have.
We have 8 people. So let's do which I don't know.
You tell me, do you want groups of 4 or 3, or 3, or left?
What do you think it's for a good one for this one?
Hi kind of get the feeling that for would be good. But here's the deal I want to be able to see.
Everyone's everyone's microphone, occasionally moving right?
Because I can see some data. At least that shows me whether or not your microphone's being used, and whether your camera's being used.
It's just yeah. Yeah. It was.
Is that the assessment assessment?
It's observable data I have. And I can infer I can make assumptions about.
You know how this is supporting learning or not?
That kind of thing. Yeah, exactly. So we'll just do the 2 breakout rooms.
It'll assign you automatically, and we'll create those rooms.
And we'll do this for 20 min is probably plenty for this.
Add add some comments to your your group areas, and then for those of you listening as the recording, you can add your own comments after you've read through the comments for those people, and hopefully listen to our debrief.
What did you find useful to talk about? Alright, I'm gonna open the rooms now, and I will call you back in 20 min or less.
Let me start the recording again. Just get a going again.
Okay. So we're back from our brief breakout. We had a little earthquake, 3.7, about 6 miles south of where I'm sitting.
Currently it was quite, quite a little jolt. But I guess, did you guys feel it where you are?
Yeah, where are you sitting? Are you? Oh, wow!
Oh, I felt it!
I'm in Antioch, so it's like it was like near in the Mount Diablo hills somewhere down there, and like 16 kilometers deep. So that's pretty good, though, for.
Okay. I wasn't crazy cause I'm in Dublin, and I felt it really bad.
And I I ran out of my room a little bit and asked my parents in days a day.
Haven't felt so. So I was like, I'm crazy.
Yeah, they didn't feel it. Oh, really!
But okay, it's like, so weird, okay?
Yeah, it's on whatever fault. The Hayward fault, or whatever fault.
There's so many faults around here.
I think, yeah, whatever.
San Andreas is over in on the Peninsula, so it was a different fault.
I don't know what it is, anyway. You guys were putting a lot of notes in there, and I was interesting.
One of the groups had lots of different people talking. The videos are on other group.
Had people different people talking, but only one video on. And I thought, Well, let's see the amount of notes have anything to do with what they were talking about.
But you can't really tell by the notes. Because some people like to write a lot.
Some people don't let's go, for let's let group one talk first.
What did you come up with just a highlights, especially the past, and maybe a little more time on the future.
What do you want to do that? You can't do right now.
Yeah, I'll get started on my team can chime in I made it. I had a similar experience.
What we had, we started using a lot more tech during the pandemic, and afterwards because it became sort of a necessity.
Also an expectation of schools and students and teachers, and just make makes we made our lives much easier as the instructors.
We really were big fans of Google classroom Google Docs.
All the Google suite stuff for, especially for live co-editing, peer, feedback.
And then Linda and Danny also talked about Zoom.
Be really powerful tool in requesting, and also workplaces.
But I.
Yeah, so and some of these tools are not really, you know. So for some kind of assessments, just dialogue kind of worked better. Anybody from the team want to add to this to the section.
Yeah. No cause for me, like I mean Dalton and I think or not that sorry Danny and I are kind of like we don't really have an experience with assessing or teaching in general.
I was saying so we both of us are. Let me just speak for myself.
For me especially. Kinda had a hard time, like kind of coming out with and it's just shared experiences.
What we currently use for me. I'm a recruiter.
So for me, when I quote unquote, assess our candidates, or candidates so like there's certain methods that we follow.
Or tactics whatever. So I just kind of shared that.
But we don't really, we assume, but we don't really give them feedback on or they don't get our feedback or certain things, cause it's yeah.
So that's why.
Linda, would you say your experience as an employee when you are being assessed like for training?
Hmm!
If there is any assessment, does it just use the standard kind of multiple choice tools that you'd see in a typical e-learning?
Yeah, it's pretty straightforward to cause, I think, for corporate.
I. This is my opinion, for corporate work especially. We're not really here to learn new things, to be honest, we're here to do our jobs.
Right.
I mean, along the way all are doing our job. Yes, we may pick up some new knowledge as a new way to do certain things. But like at the end of the day, we're expected to do our get our work done to be honest, so yeah.
The assessments really kinda on the job. Can you do your job?
Exactly. Yeah.
We're saying, which is not usually, which could be very technology.
Based, depend upon the kind of work you're doing, or might not be at all.
Yeah, I just wanna add on that for my work. It's really we looking at ourselves in a performance, there will be like 4 more employees there would like, let's say, if somebody was just hired for a job just started working.
I believe, as a they have a like a valuation like supposedly your supervisor, or the office manager will give you like evaluation every 3 months, as during the probationary time, period, one year.
That's just one example. And for me I work with.
I work with sound my assistants, but really they are nice like for more employees.
So I'm not really obligated to giving them session like evaluations, and they give them.
But I do look at her performance like Delta was mentioning that I use zoom and then ask my student assistance, share their screen with me, springs with me, show me their process, how they do things, and now give like just feedbacks right there.
And yes, Adam, I work in as of state.
Yeah. So so, Danny, would you say that you are assessed with any kind of technology tools?
Or is it pretty much just supervisors, observations, and their perspectives and their feelings about how well you're doing your work?
Yeah, I will say, I'm more like a supervisor.
But in terms assessments. I think I have done it, which is, that after I given mytings in like on boarding training, I will give them like a little quick up quits.
What test? And I actually use Microsoft form to create that test and just give them like multiple choice and also someone just with like, they can type response in a short sentence.
And then I would just collect that, and then, you know, show my feedbacks with them.
Yeah.
Okay. And let me ask Linda. You I think yours was this personality screening, running.
Right.
Are those technology? Do you use a technology to do that? Or is it just more verbal?
You know.
More verbal. I mean, only technology involved is like to zoom or webex.
Okay.
But there's no separate technology that gets involved.
Right like a fixed, you know. Here, start this animation.
Work through the goal basedbased scenario, whatever it is, and we record your answers.
And then we we do someone else. That's one way that technology might help that.
Right.
But that's someone has to build that it has to be vetted, and all that.
Okay.
Yeah, and I, yeah, like, they use that for like a larger scale companies, like if there's too many applicants, they need to do it.
So they automate it. But for us is for medium size.
Sure, sure!
So we don't have to automate that part. Yeah.
Okay. Alright. How about the second part of this? How about looking ahead for your group, or what did you guys think about?
This rubric split screen idea that we talked about, which is like, let's say, you're an instructor, or any any sort of assessor.
And you're looking at a piece of, you know, generative work what if there's a way to track the rubric pointer to the evidence right?
So it'd be something like I drop down menu.
This Amanda's idea or a way to trace what the assessment is with.
I got it.
You know, linking it to the evidence. I think Google docs the Google classroom has a web where it's like the rubric is on the side.
But it it doesn't give you that ability to show that Rubik was created this way.
Because here's what we were looking at to base that assessment on.
Canvas does. That, too, shows the Rupert, but you can't connect it right to a particular call.
Right, right, yeah, that makes us so that to the last idea at the bottom, which is like some kind of way to showcase student work or learner work, or whatever.
Where, if you have, you know, wait to sort of put all the student work in one spot or a way to quickly add it to a portfolio.
One example that is, from my school, like students do all this great work that created on the school project.
But we don't have a way for students to quickly put that somewhere.
Usually that prototype or the project ends up in their parents basement, or the garage, or in the straight in the trash, and then it's never seen again.
Right.
But I think but when we do have to create a portfolio it takes a long time, and it's very complicated for a fourth grader to make a portfolio website or a document or something like that, of course, if the structure has a way to like it.
Could be some kind of app, I guess, where you take a photo of it, and then it goes into the portfolio.
Yeah.
Maybe with some kind of descriptors, or something like that, or maybe even better, like a reflection.
We also talked about the competencies we talked about.
The mastery consortium, which is another push to go away from grades.
That's the one of the samples is down below.
There's an image there and then. We also talked a lot about.
You know the the video they showed us earlier.
There was a lot of coding, a lot of development that it went into making that system, the dashboard, the headsets.
What if those folks used all that talent to do something like actually track outcomes or learning outcomes, or something like that, right?
Come back to Linda's comment right like the the headset, is just alerting the instructors and parents about alertness, but alertness is not really.
It's not really learning right. And it's not really an outcome.
Yeah.
So I think it. There was. It's an instance of resources and time spent.
That was that, you know, could have been used, maybe elsewhere.
Oh, Dallas, okay. Anything else from your group on this part?
No, I think Dalton held everything.
One of the, you know. One of the challenges, you know, is when we're doing all these things in different technologies.
If we want to put them together somewhere, make it really easy to say, Hey, I want this part of this project or this this part of this.
You know a portfolio. It's getting all these systems to talk to each other, and that's that's one of the challenges that we find quite a bit.
And why progress is sometimes really slow. It's not like that.
It can't be done if we can think of it, it can probably be done.
But getting it to the point where you can actually build it, and then have other people who are building other technology's doing it. Do that in a way.
So that it can fit within whatever the system is that it can fit within.
Whatever the system is that we've developed is that's another major challenge getting all the developers that's another major challenge getting all the developers to work towards a particular standard way of communicating.
They've got to see value. So anyway, yeah, extra seeing those of you in the graphics class, you could probably say something about this.
This visual display, but we don't have time for that right now.
But I can see some challenges with that. A good idea I think it could be done better.
Anyway. Let's go on a group, too. Group 2.
What did you have to say?
Good idea, hey? Laura? Hey? Sent?
Sure!
I'm kind of a start, so I I can talk about the later part.
Yes, we all share different technologies that we're currently using to assess students and I both had it in common that we use canvas quite a bit in our work and canvas based tools like discussion posts and quizzes and in particular canvas
quizzes are cool, and they allow different settings.
You know you, you know. I think a lot of us are familiar with taking the quizzes on campus that allow multiple tabs.
But there's also something that I've been noticing called mastery paths in canvas quiz tools which I have yet to play with.
So I'm kind of interested to see what that looks like, and if that is, I'm not sure if that's like an adaptive learning, modification.
And then, of course, using, you know, just like Dalton was mentioning using like any of the Google suites, to see students, just like what we're doing here right?
Just like in our breakout, sharing notes, to break out room, shared notes.
You know, that's somewhat of an assessment as well.
Right when you especially if you're providing prompts to students that are requiring them to to demonstrate comprehension of a concept or comprehension of the reading I use that in my synchronous teaching, and then Adam mentioned
using play pause in zaption, both of which I'm interested in learning more about that.
Are somewhat like Ed Puzzle. I guess that allow for questions or assessments to be embedded in videos.
We talked about in Google form survey zoom polls like the poll that you can take on zoom Google classroom.
And then I'll let you go from there.
So I'm a personally, I'm very much used to like paper based assessment and like human accessing us.
So like, for future. We were thinking like, how we can use AI for assessment.
And I was thinking about AI Labs. And Adam was talking about Xr lab, so like, students can show their skills and knowledge like, if that's working properly and they can get real-time feedback where you want to add something.
Yes, I really appreciate the Dr. Biddy always give us the opportunity to attend some good seminar like Dr.
Biddy, just send us the email. May second our I remember the Harvard offered a seminar that is a teaching in AI.
I signed up. Anyway, I like that is, if you want to go, that I just remind you.
Right.
It's Eastern time. This side is A is what 92, 10 to it. Start from over 8 a. M.
Yeah. It's 8 am. Pacific time. Right? Yes.
Right. And they have a recording.
You just signed up. If, in case you cannot make the time later, you have listened to the recording.
Yeah, yeah. And if you like that, there's there's a there's another one.
I just found out about today. This is a a full day conference, free.
It's sponsored by a University of California down at Irvine.
Let me put it in the chat, and I wasn't gonna send it out to everyone.
But you might find this interesting. You can writeister for it.
It's about generative AI in education and educational research.
And I think here's here's another URL that's connected with this.
I'm not sure about this, URL. It's like it's it looks like it's not a secure URL, but it's something you might want to take a look at.
If you're interested in something like that. Yeah, so there's a lot of opportunity.
There isn't there? There's a lots of going on, but there's I think there's a lot more that we can start taking advantage of at some point.
I also. I saw your talking about AR and labs, those kinds of things there's a bunch of people who have videos out there and there's some research papers around use of augmented reality and particular in science labs and if you do what if you are interested in that if
you're not familiar with it all. Just some simple searching on it.
You can see, there's a bunch of Youtube videos people showing how they use it.
I just linked one in there, and that's I hadn't actually didn't watch the whole video, but it looked like it would be something that might be useful for that.
All is, when they all add is that we were talking about how you know in your last group you're talking about how technology was essential to be used during the pandemic to be able to assess.
And we're in. Marty and I were talking about how we mainly use canvas or like Lms based tools.
So it's like on the one hand, like those technologies can help facilitate interesting forms of assessment.
But they can also be big limitations, because you can only have what's available in your learning management system.
Yeah.
Yup, so it's interesting. It's kinda like a map.
Lms has it, you know. Lms. Provides a lot of opportunities for learning in different ways, but it also restrains right.
It's also puts constraints on things.
And if if the Lms won't let you do it doesn't show up on the Alright.
Alright!
It's kinda like a map, right? Who designs the map gets to decide what gets found and what doesn't get phone.
It's it's really a pretty powerful role to play, and a very responsible role.
I'd say so. I think that's I think you know, philosophically, there's some challenge there, and opportunity.
And we actually kind of had an interesting like discussion.
Kind of it was somewhat of a side, as I guess, but Way was saying how she uses and women correct me wrong.
You use Google Google classroom? And but she had the option to use canvas.
But that was kind of too many options, and the like.
The simplicity of Google was helpful. And then I was saying that I have used moodle a lot in the past, and I like really don't like using moodle cause there's so many options because it's open source that I've had a really hard
time figuring out. So it's like on some. There's also something about like, where, with all the tools and assessments you have, it's sometimes like having so many options as can also be a challenge in like figuring out how to assess your learners.
Yeah, yeah, that's a good point. Okay, very cool.
Alright! So those of you who are doing it as synchronously add your notes into our conversation.
There, add your own. Notes. Make sure you put your name on it, so I know who's there, so I can give you credit for being here. Cause.
That's part of the grading scheme, as you well know.
What's next for this session? There is a there's an online discussion.
Of course, everybody gets to do an online discussion. And here I'm looking really for your, you know, thinking about this again.
So a little bit more formal. What do you think might be helpful for you?
In the terms of assessment that you need to do.
You know what technology you know, what kind of advances would you be interested in those kinds of things?
And this one. You could talk about this quite a bit, but just limit yourself.
Don't, unless you can set your actually, you can say that as long as you want.
But don't feel like you have to go on and on, or look for responses that are, you know, going on and on focus on something that's most interesting to in.
Mari, you have a question. You look like you want to ask something.
Yes. How do you know you thought on my face, or something?
I did actually.
I didn't want to interrupt you, because this is a question that's sort of a more global question about the class.
Okay. Well, let me just briefly say, next week we're gonna come.
We're gonna continue talking about assessment, we're going to focus on adaptive assessment and other kinds of evaluation.
And so we'll we'll talk more about that.
There's a couple of things for you to look at.
After that you do your next, your next papers demonstration your paper endem demonstration about using some sort of technology for assessments, assessing, learning.
And after that we go on to the final projects. We do have this personal learning, environments and assistive technology topic that I'd like to include in here give you a little a week or so before we get to the final project presentations.
Some time to work out. This is this this final presentation, this I think, happens in a month, right?
Like whatever day that would be. May seventeenth.
Is that right? Yeah. And so we'll do the drafts during the seventeenth, and I'll give you feedback, although we're not gonna meet on the 20 Fourth. And that's when your final version of everything would be do we do done.
And do, okay? Ready for the Meta question.
So it's actually on topic of what you were just talking about with the final project, and in our class we kind of at some point got off track about not really got off track, but talked about assessments of the final assessment.
And we remembered that at some point earlier in this class you had kind of put it out there that that we could have a conversation about whether or not we, as a class, would decide to do 3 demos.
Oh! And then no final project, or like!
Some like, you know whether or not we, as a class, could decide if we wanted to.
Huh!
Maybe not have a final project, or have the final project instead of the last demo, or something to that effect, and I guess where I'm getting is, you know.
What about the idea of not having 2 more big things do in this class?
Hmm!
But maybe just one more thing that may be combined, elements of both, or something like that.
What here's what I would be interested in.
I would. What I would say is, I would be willing to skip paper 3, and just go right.
Wait until the final, the final piece. And just basically lump some, some approach towards a using technology for assessment into that final instructional project you have.
So it would be an element where you, where you're probably addressing content, engagement and assessment.
And it doesn't mean 3 specifically different technologies.
It could it could be done in one or 2 technologies but you've got you're really talking about elements of content, presentation or content creation engagement with learners in the process of their learning as well as in somehow us using some technologies for assessing learning as well that would probably
be a way to do that. What do you guys think?
That means that's 1 one less.
Well what I would call a smaller assass assignment, and then, you know, of course, the grading system would just kind of change up to watch that other one out. I have.
I'd have to restructure the way the grades are done.
But that's easy for me to do. I see one person likes that anyone else thumbs up.
We're not thumbs up. Okay? And here's what I'll also offer you.
If someone really wants to do a separate paper just on the assessment, you can do it, and I'll be able to give you feedback and grading for it.
And we we we can make sure that it's part of your grade in some way.
But you know, let me know if you really wanna do that.
I suspect that many people would want to do that, but I do want to make sure that's available to you, since it was originally part of you know the plan we put out.
If we do that, that means we don't have to do the demonstrations are in session 13.
And so what I would suggest we do then is move up session 14 to 13.
So session 13 would be personal learning environments and assistive technology, and then session 14.
Becomes the the presentations which basically allows us to do that paper a week earlier, and then have the final version, do like on whatever the week of the seventeenth, seventeenth, seventeenth, whatever that would be.
And then we're done right.
Would we be would it be possible for us to, you know, in our kinda have it be a little bit more open, so that our final project or projectation could be choosing like 2 out of 3 or like 3 out of 4 cause it looks like we have personal learning
environments and assistive technology. I actually, really, really, like, I wanna learn more about assistive technology.
And I would meet you like to talk about that in my final project, maybe over assessment, or something like that, or is it open to like a little bit more flexibility in terms of like what we include in our final?
No asking for too much. Huh?
Yeah, you could. Yeah, you could certainly talk about assistive technology.
That can be certainly as that can be, an important element of it.
Okay.
And that would be. I'm just trying to think of where that fits into kind of like the pillars of instruction.
And so you're kind of racking my pillars of instruction world here.
Oh!
A little bit, because it's been content, engagement and assessment.
However, there's also there's also this, this, this environmental element as well, none of that happens without the element that goes around.
And that's really where the personal learning, environment and the assistive technology kind of fit in because the sessive technology allows you to use the technologies to access content.
It allows you to use the technologies to do the assessment it allows you to do the use the technologies for and engagement right?
So it's not really a I don't think it's not really a separate thing.
It's really more of a more of an environmental factor. Right?
That all of these could fit within, so I don't think it would be hard for you to have a strong focus on assistive technology, but it also makes them mention how it supports the content.
It supports the engagement, and supports the assessment.
Approach, okay.
Yeah, I think that's a good point.
Yeah, alright, that's another way of thinking about this, too.
Okay, so, are we liking that idea and I mean, you guys are the live, synchronous students and so this is one of the advantages.
If we're going to make a consent synchronous.
A meetings are pretty good for consensus building in some ways, and I think this is okay.
Right? Okay, do I hear any descent?
Adam. Adam, Adam, you have your hand up.
No, I see.
Yeah. No, to send for me. I like this. I was.
My question is just about, is this also like the form where we ask questions about the expectation?
Oh, you can. Yes, certainly.
Then of the final assessment is the idea here that we're we design some sort of unit we're designing a unit.
And so we need to like somehow, render graphically or through a lesson plan or something.
What that unit is, and then write a paper on how we would design it, because we're not necessarily teaching this.
It's about the design, for example, like, you know, VR, or something, we're not actually doing the lesson. Probably.
But you want us to design this theoretical lesson and show how we would do that, and then write a paper kind of analyzing what we did.
Yeah. Here's the deal. What? What I really wanna see is your ability to work technologies into an instructional.
You know, experience for learners. Right? That address the various things we've been talking about, and in order to do that, it had, it's typically more than just.
I mean it. It could be down to a lesson.
That's, you know, that just uses lots of different things.
A more complex lesson. The unit idea again helps you think more broadly about what we're going to use these kinds of technologies for this things.
So I'm just thinking out loud here usually, whatever you come up with works, it has to be complex enough so that you can show some legitimate use of each of these.
The different kinds of technologies to do different things. And it's more than just, you know, a ten-minute lesson on, you know, something simple, that just kind of surface level does those various things.
Right. And it's also not just using technology, but emerging like, you know, saying, I'm using canvas and the discussion boards and the quizzes within canvas aren't really emerging.
And so what has to be on that?
Right? That's right. You got to keep. Remember, we're talking about doing some things differently, and that could be exploring the use of an existing technology that others have using.
You just have never touched, or it could be something completely new and different that most of us have never experienced.
Kinda like some of the maybe some of the AI tools or some of the immersive reality stuff, or even the biometric stuff that we were just looking at tonight, real quickly.
If you have questions about your idea, here's what that you know, send it.
Send a little summary, a little abstract to me.
Here's what I want to do. Here's what I think, and here's why I think this will be work and then I'll give you some feedback, and then we can have a quick.
You can get your feedback, and then we can have a quick.
You can get your question answered right away. Well, within a day, probably within a few hours, but within a day.
Alright!
Alright! So those of you who are who are listening to this recording, if you're want to weigh in with your comments, you can do so either in in your discussion board in your reflection, or you can just you can talk right to me directly, especially if you'd rather work the original schedule I will always
give you the opportunity to work the original schedule, because this was the original kind of syllabus layout.
After we revised it the first time, and otherwise what we'll do is session 13.
I'm just gonna I'm just gonna I'm not.
I'm gonna make the invisible cause next up. Next time I teach this it might come back.
We'll see, and then and we'll go from there and then everything else will move up.
So session 13 becomes 14, because 1315 plus 14 cent.
And we're done a week earlier. We're done.
We're done the last week of classes, not the week of finals, which I think is good for everybody.
Long as you make work. Okay?
Thank you. Dr. B.
Thank you.
Oh, you're welcome. Thank you, guys, for hanging out.
Go ahead!
It did look otherwise it would be that next week would be the next demo paper right?
The next Demo paper would be in 2 weeks from tonight.
It would right, we would do next week would be session 12.
Oh, okay.
Talk about adaptive assessment, and then the following week would be session, 13.
The emerging technology demonstrations. Bye? So I will.
I will spend some time reordering the website, and and then I'll I'll just put some announcement when I think, Hey, it's all restructured.
Take a look at it. If you have questions, let me know.
Thank you.
Alright. Well, have a good night. Bye-bye.
Hi